In this video I'm going to discuss indefinite and Definite integrals.
Now of course integration is a huge topic in calculus in many college programs.
You would spend an entire semester just talking about integration and I'm basically going to summarize
it all in about three minutes.
So let's see how I do.
I'm going to introduce you to the concept of an integral which is actually pretty straightforward.
You're just adding together a lot of really tiny little things.
And then I'll show you definite and indefinite integration.
Obviously how to implement and compute integrals in Python and then in the exercise you will also see
how the indefinite integral is related to the derivative and you'll see that it's basically like the
inverse of the derivative.
So here I have a function.
It's just some function that goes up and then down and up again and now a question is what is the area
between these two lines.
So if you would take the area that fills in all of these boundaries here.
So at the bottom of the axis and then these two sides and then the curve here this function here defines
the top of the boundary.
How would you go about identifying this area of this space here.
Well one way you could do it is by putting a bunch of bars that would fill in roughly fill in this area
and then you count the area of all of the bars and you say well that's a pretty decent approximation
of the area of this surface.
So how do you compute the area of all of these bars.
Well we start with this one bar a rectangle the area of a rectangle is the height.
Times the width so the height here looks like one two three four five.
Let's just call that five and what is the width here well three of these bars fits into one unit here.
So this is one third across here.
And it's five units up here so five times one third is of course five thirds.
So this area here is five third.
And then you would have to compute this area in this area and so on.
And then some.
All these up together.
Now of course that's not going to give you an exact correct answer.
And that's because you can see these bars.
So this one you know it overshoots a little bit and we're missing there's a gap over here.
So what can we do about that.
We could follow this same approach but make these bars a little bit thinner.
So we still cut up this area into a bunch of vertical bars and count their areas or some other areas
but we make the bars thinner.
Now you can imagine that the thinner these bars get the more accurate this estimate of the area is going
to get.
And then we basically get down to an infinitesimal which means the smallest possible width that a bar
can possibly take.
Now on my computer screen that width would be one pixel but out there in the continuous analog real
world the width of that is going to be you know I guess it's like planck length the sort of smallest
disparities nation of the physical universe.
OK.
So but that is the principle we basically sum up a lot of really thin bars that cover the function from
this boundary point to this boundary point and that leads to the notation for computing the integral.
You have this really long thing it kind of looks like the little piece that's cut out of a violin but
it's called an integral symbol and you can think of it like an S.
It's like you're taking an S for summation but then you're squeezing the s a little bit and stretching
it.
So it's really tall.
So this symbol means to integrate between A and B and that's drawn here so a is this boundary and B
would be this boundary here and then the way to interpret this here is this is the function.
So this is actually the height of the bar at each point in X and D X is like the smallest thinnest width
of the descriptive creation of x.
So you can see this is really just the height of the bar times the width of the bar and then this gets
smaller and smaller until it goes towards zero or infinitesimal.
And this ends up being just the function itself.
Now this is called a definite integral and that's because we are definitely computing an area between
the definite points A and B if you just want the general formula of what the integration of some function
would look like then you don't actually need these boundaries here A and B instead you want to compute
what's called the indefinite integral.
Now this is where your calculus course starts getting really hairy because computing INDEFINITE integrals
is not so straightforward.
You have to learn a lot of trick you have to look up integration tables and so on.
But it actually turns out that some functions are pretty straightforward to integrate including polynomials
so I'm just going to focus in this video on integrating polynomials.
So here is the general formula for the indefinite integral of a polynomial.
So the integral of B or B is a constant times X which is the variable and a is some power also a constant
D X equals B X to the power of a plus one and that whole thing divided by a plus one plus C where C
is just some arbitrary constant might be the number three or minus 10 for example.
So how do we make sense of this result and how do we derive this answer from this equation.
Well the way to do that is to think backwards and to say what is the derivative of this formula or this
expression.
So the derivative of this expression would be to take this power here bring it down here to multiply
the B and then we subtract one from this power.
So this would end up being a plus one minus one which is of course a.
And then we have the A PLUS ONE TERM out front and that cancels out the A plus one.
So then we end up with b times X to the power of a.
So that's the derivative of this.
And now this constant here also comes from taking the derivative of this expression because the derivative
of a constant is always zero.
Right.
A constant is not moving it's just a straight line.
So if it's not changing over time then it's derivative is zero.
So you could also implicitly write plus zero in here and that wouldn't do anything.
Now that leaves open the question of why it's the right thing to do to define this integral as being
the opposite of the derivative.
And that is one of the most important principles of calculus which is that integration and derivation
are the opposites of each other and you are going to be able to demonstrate that in the exercise.
OK.
So this is a formula.
Let's go through one simple example.
So let's say we want to compute the indefinite integral of four times X squared.
Well we just follow this principle here.
So that's 2 plus 1.
So X cubed and then we put the exponent plus 1 also in the denominator here.
And of course add C.
And now we can quickly confirm that computing the derivative of this side will give us this term here.
So the derivative of this is going to be we take down the three and this becomes 12 times X squared.
But then it's divided by three.
So that brings this 12 back down to four and that gives us exactly this term in here.
All right.
So with that as a introduction I'm not going to switch to Python and show you how to compute the integral
the indefinite and definite integral of a function using simple fortunately it's pretty straightforward.
So let's start by creating a symbolic variable so x equals some symbols X and let's say that our function
is just x.
So it's a really simple function and then we type Sim dot into great integrate F and the output is the
indefinite integral of this function.
So X squared divided by two and we can quickly confirm that the derivative of this is going to be two
x divided by two which of course is just x.
Now you have to be careful when computing the indefinite integral in simple.
That the constant is left out here.
So notice in the slides I said you know you put on this plus C over here but here the output of sim
that integrate actually doesn't include a constant.
So something to keep in mind.
So this is the indefinite integral.
And now how do we compute the definite integral.
Well it's actually pretty much the same thing.
So I'm still gonna write simple dot integrate it's still f except now we provide a second input which
is going to be a tuple and in this tuple we give three inputs the variable that we are going to integrate
over.
Now in this case it's only X that's our only option.
But of course if you have a function of multiple variables you know if this were a function of x and
y then you could integrate over X or integrate over y and then we want the two areas are the two boundaries
I should say to compute the integral over.
So we are going to compute the integral of x in the range of 0 to 1 and the answer is 1 1/2.
So how can we make sense of this answer.
Let's start by plotting this function I think I'll do that up here.
So all right p equals Sim dot plotting dot plot f now because I am computing the definite integral between
0 and 1 I actually want to zoom in to this plot a little bit so p dot X Lim equals Let's go 0 to 1 and
then I'll set p that y Lim how about maybe also 0 to 1.
Okay and now let me to make sure that these X and Y limits are going to be updated I'm going to write
show equals false and then after I change some of the features of this plot then I write p dot show.
Okay so here is our function and it's it's actually a pretty boring looking function isn't it.
It just goes up like this.
So F equals X Y equals X.
And now when you look at this graphically it's pretty obvious that the area under this curve or the
straight line from 0 to 1 is going to be 1 1/2.
And that's because we have a box here that's Unit 1.
So it's a box with area equal to 1 and then we're just cutting it exactly on the diagonal.
So that's the kind of visual geometric way to understand that this is the right answer.
And numerically the way to think about this being the right answer is that you compute the integral
at X equals 1 minus the integral of x equals zero.
So X equals 1.
The integral was let me print this out here
x squared divided by two so then we input one or we replace X for one and we get one squared which is
just one divided by two.
Which is one half and then minus x equals zero.
And of course this function is zero.
So then we get one half what I'd like to do next is show you a little bit more about plotting a integral
and a function.
So let's come up with another function.
Maybe this one's gonna be a little bit more interesting.
How about X cubed divided by X minus two.
Now this is gonna be interesting as a function because it's gonna have something bizarre happening at
X equals 2.
So first I'm going to compute the indefinite integral let's call this int f equals sim that integrate
of f and then I want to plot both of these on the same plot.
So right.
P equals Sim dot plotting dot plot f show equals false and this is lowercase F and now I want to include
the integral in the same plot so I have to write P that extend and I'm going to extend this plot object
by adding another plot object to it.
So that's gonna be another same dot plotting dot plot and now it's int f and let's say the bounds for
that should be X and let's go from a little bit higher than this maybe like two point one up to ten.
Okay.
And then also show equals false and make sure this has a different line color of red.
And now let's just plot this and see what it looks like.
Oh right.
So the function blows up to plus infinity and over here it goes down to minus infinity.
So I want to force the y axis to be a little bit more centered so let's say p dot y Lim equals maybe
minus two hundred two plus two hundred and let's see how this looks.
Oh right.
This is looking a bit better okay.
And then the last thing that I want to add here is some labels for a legend.
So let's say the first label is going to be I want this to to show me what the function is.
So this is going to be f of x equals and then percent s and here replace that percent s with Sim the
late.
And then the function itself which was F and then let's see I'll do a little bit of copying and pasting.
So this is gonna be the label associated with the second line so of index 1.
And that's going to be the integral.
So that should say since this is the latex code for into getting the integral sign slash and so and
then we need a d x in here and that's going to be it f right.
And then I need to activate the legend.
So p dot legend equals true.
There you go.
OK.
So here we just see all the raw latex code which didn't get interpreted.
And why didn't it get interpreted.
This was my mistake.
I should have put another dollar sign at the end here.
Let's see.
There you go.
Now that's looking quite a bit nicer in this video I introduce you to the concept of an integral.
I showed you how to compute the definite and indefinite integrals in python using simple.
And in the next video which contains the exercise associated with this video you will get to see that
the indefinite integral is like the inverse or the opposite of the derivative.
That's a pretty important principle in calculus.